Update and refresh 4 articles: Install and use packages (#2852)
NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget: docs/consume-packages/install-use-packages-nuget-cli.md

The NuGet CLI runs on .NET Framework and non-SDK-style projects, for example non-SDK style projects that target .NET Standard libraries. The NuGet CLI commands can use a project [packages.config](../reference/packages-config.md) file that lists package references. For non-SDK-style projects that use `PackageReference` instead of *packages.config* for package references, use the [dotnet CLI](install-use-packages-dotnet-cli.md) instead.

> [!NOTE]
> For most non-SDK-style projects that use *packages.config*, it's best to [migrate packages.config to PackageReference](migrate-packages-config-to-package-reference.md), and then use the dotnet CLI instead of the NuGet CLI to manage packages. However, you can't migrate C++ or ASP.NET projects.

For most commands, the NuGet CLI tool uses the current directory, unless you specify a different location in the command. To run NuGet CLI commands, open a command line and switch to the directory that contains your project file.

For a complete list of commands and their arguments, see the [NuGet CLI reference](../reference/nuget-exe-cli-reference.md).

## Prerequisites

> Download the NuGet CLI from [nuget.org](https://dist.nuget.org/win-x86-commandline/latest/nuget.exe). Save the *nuget.exe* file to a suitable directory, and make sure the directory is in your PATH environment variable.

Reviewer: Should we tell users that they can also now use `winget`(Windows) or `brew`(macOS)?

> 
> - Add packages through the [Visual Studio Package Manager UI](install-use-packages-visual-studio.md) or [Package Manager Console](install-use-packages-powershell.md), or
> - Modify [packages.config](../reference/packages-config.md) manually, then run `install` or `restore`.

Use the `-OutputDirectory` option to install packages to a specific directory. If you don't specify an output directory, `install` uses the current directory.

```cli
nuget install <packageID | configFilePath> -OutputDirectory <outputDirectory>
```

For example, to install the `Newtonsoft.json` package to the *packages* subdirectory, use the following command:

```cli
nuget install Newtonsoft.Json -OutputDirectory packages
```

Instead of specifying a package to install, you can specify an existing *packages.config* file in the current or another directory. The `install` command installs all the packages listed in the *packages.config* file.

```cli
nuget install packages.config
```

For example, the following command installs all the packages listed in the *packages.config* file at *C:\myPath* to the *packages* subdirectory in the current directory:

```cli

> nuget install C:\myPath\packages.config -OutputDirectory packages

Reviewer 2: @v-thepet Just to confirm, looks like the full path is required for packages.config? @nkolev92 in case any clarification is needed.

Author: @Mikejo5000 - I'll experiment with using a relative path.

Reviewer 3: Relative paths should work too.

Author: @Mikejo5000 @nkolev92 - Correct, relative paths work.

## Install a specific version of a package

> The `install` command installs the latest version of a package, unless you specify a different version. To install a specific version of a package, use the `-Version` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `install` command installs the latest version of a package unless you specify a different version. To install a specific version of a package, use the `-Version` option:
```

```cli
nuget install <packageID | configFilePath> -Version <version>
```

For example, to install version 12.0.1 of the `Newtonsoft.json` package, use:

```cli
nuget install Newtonsoft.Json -Version 12.0.1
```

## List packages

Use the [list](../reference/cli-reference/cli-ref-list.md) command to display a list of packages. Use the `-Source` option to restrict the list.

```cli
nuget list -Source <source>
```

For example, to list packages in the *packages* subdirectory of *MyProject*, use:

```cli

> nuget list -Source C:\Users\<username>\source\repos\MyProject\packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nuget list -Source C:\Users\%USERNAME%\source\repos\MyProject\packages
```

```cli

> nuget list -Source packages

Reviewer 2: Opposite question to the previous. Testing showed no path is required here?

Author: @Mikejo5000 - Right. I think this was an example path. (VS projects don't have to be at source/repos.) Using just "packages" lists the packages in a subfolder named packages in the current folder. The folder name "packages" seems arbitrary, at least, any folder name works with the command. I don't know if folder name "packages" is necessary for some other functionality. If you use just `nuget list` you get all the packages at nuget.org (or default location).

Author: @Mikejo5000 @nkolev92 - I was incorrect, full path (or URL) is needed for `-Source`.

> If you don't specify a source, `list` uses all sources defined in the *NuGet.Config* global configuration file. If *NuGet.Config* doesn't specify any sources, `list` uses the default feed, for example nuget.org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't specify a source, `list` uses all sources defined in the *NuGet.Config* global configuration file. If *NuGet.Config* doesn't specify any sources, `list` uses a default feed of nuget.org.
```

---
title: Manage NuGet packages with the NuGet CLI
description: Instructions for using the NuGet CLI, nuget.exe, to install, list, update, remove, and restore NuGet packages.
author: mikejo5000
ms.author: mikejo
ms.date: 08/29/2022
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Manage NuGet packages with the NuGet CLI

> You can use the `nuget.exe` CLI tool to install, list, update, remove, and restore NuGet packages in Visual Studio projects and solutions. The NuGet CLI provides all NuGet capabilities on Windows, and provides most NuGet capabilities on Mac and on Linux with Mono. This article describes the most common NuGet CLI commands for managing NuGet packages.

Reviewer 3: NuGet.exe can't do all the listed things. 

There's no proper list and remove functionalities. 
I think we should only say `restore` and the install/update/remove commands are completed through the PM UI.

List just happens to work for packages.config projects because of a design decision, but it's not really guaranteed to be 100% correct every time

Author: @nkolev92 - How about "manage," as that's what the article states it's about, and if we only say "restore" people might think they're in the wrong article.

Reviewer 3: Yep, great idea.

> [!NOTE]
> For most non-SDK-style projects that use *packages.config*, it's best to [migrate packages.config to PackageReference](migrate-packages-config-to-package-reference.md), and then use the dotnet CLI instead of the NuGet CLI to manage packages. However, you can't migrate C++ or ASP.NET projects.

For most commands, the NuGet CLI tool uses the current directory, unless you specify a different location in the command. To run NuGet CLI commands, open a command line and switch to the directory that contains your project file.

For a complete list of commands and their arguments, see the [NuGet CLI reference](../reference/nuget-exe-cli-reference.md).

## Prerequisites

Download the NuGet CLI from [nuget.org](https://dist.nuget.org/win-x86-commandline/latest/nuget.exe). Save the *nuget.exe* file to a suitable directory, and make sure the directory is in your PATH environment variable.

> [!NOTE]

> > You can also use the [winget](/windows/package-manager/winget) tool for Windows or [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) for macOS.

Reviewer 4: I really hate nuget.exe, so it makes me sad that we're making it easier for customers to keep depending on it 😢

```

For example, to install the `Newtonsoft.json` package to the *packages* subdirectory, use the following command:

```cli
nuget install Newtonsoft.Json -OutputDirectory packages
```

Instead of specifying a package to install, you can specify an existing *packages.config* file in the current or another directory. The `install` command installs all the packages listed in the *packages.config* file.

```cli
nuget install packages.config
```

For example, the following command installs all the packages listed in *packages.config* in the *config* subdirectory to the *packages* subdirectory:

```cli
nuget install config\packages.config -OutputDirectory packages

```

## Install a specific version of a package

The `install` command installs the latest version of a package unless you specify a different version. To install a specific version of a package, use the `-Version` option:

```cli
nuget install <packageID | configFilePath> -Version <version>
```

For example, to install version 12.0.1 of the `Newtonsoft.json` package, use:

```cli
nuget install Newtonsoft.Json -Version 12.0.1
```

## List packages

> Use the [list](../reference/cli-reference/cli-ref-list.md) command to display a list of packages. Use the `-Source` option to restrict the list.

Reviewer 3: I  think we should tweak this a bit to indicate that this shows the packages installed in the packages folder.

```cli
nuget list -Source <source>
```

For example, to list packages in the *packages* subdirectory of *MyProject*, use:

```cli
nuget list -Source C:\Users\%USERNAME%\source\repos\MyProject\packages
```

> If you don't specify a source, `list` uses all sources defined in the *NuGet.Config* global configuration file. If *NuGet.Config* doesn't specify any sources, `list` uses a default feed of nuget.org.

Reviewer 3: This information deviates from the context of the doc which is nuget.exe for installing packages.

Author: @nkolev92 - Not sure what you mean - this series of articles includes the 'list' capability.

Reviewer 3: The part talking about sources being used from nuget.config. 

The `list` functionality lists the packages from a specific source. It just so happens that the packages folder itself has the shape of a source, so it can be used as an approximation to view the packages installed the cunrrent repo/projects.

Author: @nkolev92 - Right but if you start a new project with no dependencies and then do nuget list, it starts listing from nuget.org, is what I'm trying to say.

Reviewer 3: Unfortunately the command itself is misnamed when compared to commands such as dotnet list package, https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-list-package, which is a true command that lists your installed packages (only works for SDK based projects).

This list command is more of a `search` command, where it searches for a package on certain sources. 
It's equivalent to the `Find-Package` command in PMC. 

The current usage is not the primary intended one for this command. 
I think we should tweak it to link to the command description and then explain this is a way of getting an approximation of installed packages on the commandline

Author: @nkolev92 - OK, I removed that sentence. (The first sentence already links to the command.)

You can also use a search term to search for package names, tags, or descriptions:

```cli
nuget list <"search term"> -Source <source>
```

## Update all packages

Use the [update](../reference/cli-reference/cli-ref-update.md) command to update all packages in a project *packages.config* file to their latest available versions. It's best to run `restore` before you run `update`.

```cli
nuget update
```

## Remove a package

> 

Reviewer 3: I'd recommend that they use the PMC/PM UI. 

Just deleting a package from the packages folder does nothing for the project itself.
Notable that the packages folder tends to be in the solution file repo.

Author: @nkolev92 - Added some language to recommend using VS/Console.
